Install Python
Ensure Python is installed on your system. If not:

Download it from python.org.
Install the latest version (3.8 or higher recommended).
During installation, ensure you check the option to "Add Python to PATH."
2. Install Required Libraries
Run the following command in your terminal or command prompt to install the libraries used in the chatbot:

bash
Copy code
pip install nltk requests textblob wolframalpha
nltk: For natural language processing.
requests: To make API calls.
textblob: For sentiment analysis.
wolframalpha: For factual query handling.
3. Download NLTK Data
Run the following commands in Python to download the necessary nltk data:

python
Copy code
import nltk
nltk.download('punkt')
4. Set Up API Keys
The chatbot uses two external APIs:

OpenWeatherMap: For weather information.
Sign up at OpenWeatherMap.
Get your API key from the dashboard.
WolframAlpha: For factual queries.
Sign up at WolframAlpha.
Get your API key from the developer portal.
Replace the placeholders in the code with your actual API keys:

python
Copy code
WOLFRAM_API_KEY = "your_wolfram_api_key"
WEATHER_API_KEY = "your_openweathermap_api_key"
5. Save the Code
Save the chatbot code in a file with a .py extension, e.g., chatbot.py.

6. Run the Chatbot
Open a terminal or command prompt in the directory where the chatbot.py file is saved, then run:

bash
Copy code
python chatbot.py
7. Interact with the Chatbot
Once the chatbot starts, you'll see a greeting message. Start chatting with it by typing your queries or commands, such as:

"Hello!"
"What is the weather in New York?"
"Add task Finish homework."
"View tasks."
"Delete task Finish homework."
"Tell me a joke."
"What is 2+2?" (factual query using WolframAlpha)
Type quit to exit the chatbot.

8. Test Persistent To-Do List
Add tasks, then exit the chatbot by typing quit.
Restart the chatbot and type view tasks. You should see the tasks saved from the previous session.